For this experiment I've copied the sleep program into my working directory.

```
$ cp /bin/sleep ./mysleep
$ chmod u+s mysleep
$ ls -l --block-size=1 mysleep 

-rwsr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68442 May  6 22:56 mysleep
```

I first tried modifying the file in the way suggested in the question (e.g., cat >> file) but it didn't affect the set-user-ID permission bit.

```
$ cp /bin/sleep mysleep
$ ls -l mysleep
-rwxr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68432 May  9 11:21 mysleep
$ chmod u+s mysleep
$ ls -l mysleep
-rwsr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68432 May  9 11:21 mysleep
$ echo x >> mysleep
$ ls -l mysleep
-rwsr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68434 May  9 11:22 mysleep
```

But if we truncate the file (e.g. cat > file), the set-user-ID permission bit is cleared.
```
$ echo x > mysleep     
$ ls -l mysleep   
-rwxr-xr-x 1 debian debian 2 May  9 11:23 mysleep
```

The answer in the book confirms:
> Whenever a file is modified by an unprivileged user, the kernel clears the file’s set-user-ID permission bit. The set-group-ID permission bit is similarly cleared if the group-execute permission bit is enabled.

Though as the experiment shows, not all kind of modifications clears that bit.
Then I realized that I run this experiment on a mounted folder that uses the 9p filesystem.
```
$ findmnt -T .          

TARGET     SOURCE FSTYPE OPTIONS
/mnt/macos share  9p     rw,relatime,sync,dirsync,debug=3ff,access=client,trans=
```

When running the the same on a ext4 filesystem, the set-user-ID permission bit is cleared also for file append.
```
$ chmod u+s mysleep
$ ls -l mysleep    
-rwsr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68432 May  9 11:50 mysleep
$ echo x >> mysleep
$ ls -l mysleep    
-rwxr-xr-x 1 debian debian 68434 May  9 11:51 mysleep
```

As it turns out, different file systems behave different as regard to the SUID bit clearing upon modifications.


## Why does this happen?
Clearing the SUID and GUID bit is a mechanism of the kernel to prevent a potential privilege escalation attack where an attacker might overwrite a SUID binary and then execute it.

If the flag stayed set after a file was modified, any unprivileged user who could overwrite a set-uid binary could replace it with malicious code and then run that code as root.

As for why the behavior is different per filesystem, see next section [Further Analysis](#further-analysis).


## Further Analysis

I couldn't just accept the fact that the SUID bit modification behavior is different per file system.
In order to sleep well at night, I had to figure out why.

I started by reading what [9p fs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/9P_(protocol)) is all about
> 9P (or the Plan 9 Filesystem Protocol or Styx) is a network protocol developed for the Plan 9 from Bell Labs distributed operating system as the means of connecting the components of a Plan 9 system.

9P is popular for guest-host file sharing in virtual machines (e.g., virtio-9p/KVM) - https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/9p_virtio
That was the case for me, I'm running Debian on UTM (which runs QEMU under the hood). I use this mount to access a folder on my macos host machine.

From there, I continued the investigation for why the SUID bit is not cleared upon file append.

This behavior can happen anywhere between the Kernel to the macos host machine:
- Is clearing SUID the Linux Kernel responsibility? Maybe the 9p module?
- Is it a limitation of the 9p protocol?
- Perhaps it's the 9p server (QEMU).
- Or maybe it's the macos host that doesn't clear the SUID on the shared drive.

I started from checking the syscalls made by the shell and ended up patching the Kernel.
For more details see [Deeper Analysis](./01_deeper_analysis.md)
