The following code differs lines when output is directed to file or to the standard output.

```C
printf("If I had more time, \n");
write(STDOUT_FILENO, "I would have written you a shorter letter.\n", 43);
```

This is becuase stdio buffers default behavior changes for streams when referring to terminal devices or files on disk:

_Page 238_
> _IOLBF
>
> Employ line-buffered I/O. This flag is the default for streams referring to terminal devices. For output streams, data is buffered until a newline char- acter is output (unless the buffer fills first). For input streams, data is read a line at a time.
>
> _IOFBF
>
> Employ fully buffered I/O. Data is read or written (via calls to read() or write()) in units equal to the size of the buffer. This mode is the default for streams referring to disk files.

`printf` uses a stdio buffer. When a stream is referring a terminal, _IOLBF (Line buffered cache) is the default mode active.

So in the case of a terminal, "If I had more time, \n" will be flushed because of the new-line character at the end. Then the second line will be printed as the `write` system call writes directly to the kernel buffer cache.

```
If I had more time, 
I would have written you a shorter letter.
```

On the other hand, when the output is directed to a file, Full-buffered mode (_IOFBF) is activated and the printf content gets to a stdio buffer.

Then write's content is written directly to the kernel buffer cache. Then the stdio buffer is flushed when the process terminates.

```
I would have written you a shorter letter.
If I had more time,
```
